---
layout: default
title: Frequently Asked Questions
permalink: /faq/
---

## Frequently Asked Questions

### What is an SFV file?

SFV stands for Simple File Verification. These files contain filename/checksum information that can be used to check files for corruption that may happen when it is sent over the internet or local area network.

**Sample SFV File:**

	; File Generated By UltraSFV - www.ultrasfv.com
	;
	My Video.avi         03B088D1
	Picture1.jpg         95629ADC
	Sample File 1.txt    D4877817
	The_Program.exe      D8E0BAE0

As you can see it is simply a text file with a filename and CRC32 checksum for each file it has checked. Lines starting with a semicolon are treated as comments and ignored.

### What is a CRC checksum?

CRC stands for Cyclic Redundance Check, and is a method used to verify data. Basically it is a fingerprint of the actual binary data a file or packet contains. The CRC method is not infallable, nor is it a way to garantee that files have not been modified by a malitious hacker. However CRC verification is an excellent way to detect the random errors that can occur when files are transfered over unreliable channels, such as the internet or LAN.

### When should I create an SFV file?

Any time you are going to transfer files over the internet or LAN. It is also helpful when burning CD/DVD discs, simply create an SFV for the files you're burning and then check the files on the disc once it's completed. I recommend burning the SFV file to the disc with the rest of the contents so you can check the disc again anytime in the future.

### What should I do when I find a bad file?

If the file was downloaded off of the internet then you should re-download the file. If the file was emailed to you then you should ask the sender to resend the file. If the file was burned to a CD/DVD you should to re-burn that disc or obtain another disc from the publisher.

### Can I verify files that didn't come with an SFV?

Only if a CRC was appended to the name. e.g. `My_Video_File_[A29ADAB9].avi`

To verify a file you need to have a CRC to check against. Many people now append CRC's to file names instead of attaching SFV files. UltraSFV fully supports this method of CRCing files.

### Which is better, creating an SFV or appending CRCs to file names?

Generally speaking, you should append CRCs to file names. People tend to delete SFV files when they're done with them, but they don't usualy rename the files. A file with a CRC in its name can be checked no matter where it ends up or how many times it was transfered. Only create SFV files when you don't want to alter the names of the files you are locking.

### Windows said UltraSFV is trying to connect to the internet! Why?

UltraSFV will try to connect to the internet to check for automatic updates. It only sends basic information about the application so that it can determine if there is a new update out. No personally identifiable information is sent.

### Can I use UltraSFV for my business?

Yes. You can use UltraSFV for personal or commercial purposes. You just can't sell the UltraSFV software itself.
